Cloud involves numerous complicated tasks such as:-
1)Understanding hardware requirements
2)Buying required hardware
3)Setting up the infrastructure
4)Configuring the systems
5)Managing the systems

Before cloud computing was available deploying an application was a massive task.We use cloud to deploy our application.Before cloud computing an organization was required
to invest in a data center to procure some specific hardwares like servers and set up the application on those servers.So we needed to preplan things.Procurement of data
centers were time consuming and had certain limits.

Cloud computing simply removes all the roadblocks you come across when u need access to some extra computing resources.To put it simply,cloud computing refers to the 
delivery of computing services over a network to a remote customer.

Cloud computing also offers several advantages such as :-
1)On demand 
2)scalable
3)elasticity
4)Broad network access
5)Measured Services
6)Multi-Tenancy
7)Resource Pooling

Anyone can access cloud computing services anytime they need to
Before cloud computing,anyone in need of computation resources had to buy these resources and configure them which took time

Cloud computing allows you to increase the capacity of resources and services quite easily
This can be done by either horizontal scaling or vertical scaling.In horizontal scaling we add more servers to our pool(cluster) of servers
In vertical scaling we add more resources to our existing servers
Vertical scaling is all about adding extra memory or adding extra CPU power.

Cloud computing services are available to be accessed anywhere using the internet.You do not need to be on premise network to access these services.(Elastic)
You can either scale up or down depending upon the demand.When we talk about scaling,we talk about adding more processing and adding either vertical or horizontal 
scaling.In vertical scaling we talk about adding more capacity to the existing system/server.

Elasticity refers to the property that if the demand increases then you may either scale up the resources or vice-versa.
In scalability we talk about only scaling up and not scaling down but in elasticity we talk about both.

Cloud computing services are available to be accessed anywhere using the internet.You do not need to be on a special on premise network to access these services.

Cloud computing roles:-
1)Provider
2)Customer
3)Partner
4)Broker

Provider offers cloud computing services for sale to third parties
Customer purchase cloud computing services from one or more provider
Partners are third party companies that offer products and services that interact with the services offered by cloud service providers eg-Service Monitoring,etc.
Broker manages the cloud services and negotiates relationships between cloud providers and cloud customers.
To understand cloud security what is most important is that we understand basic building blocks of cloud computing.These building blocks are nothing but the infrastructure
services that make up the various cloud computing platforms.
These building blocks are:-
1)Compute service
2)Storage service
3)Networing service
4)Databases service
5)Orchestration service

Compute services refer to creation,management and usage of virtual servers which we then use to perform computation tasks.
These servers can then be used by users to offload some resource intensive taks such as calculations or application deployment etc. eg-AWS EC2-If i have set up a 
dedicated web server on Amazon AWS EC2 then it is an example of compute service.

In cloud computing storage is broken into 2 categories:Block and Object
First one is block storage in which we get a chunk of storage space allocated to us which is then partitioned into drives and managed by operating system eg:-AWS Elastic
Block Store
Second one is Object Storage which abstracts the details file storage and management,All these details are handeled by our cloud service provider,all we have to do is to
upload and access files.eg:-AWS S3

In cloud computing networks allows users to connect several systems together in cloud.
Networks in cloud are highly virtualised to provide high degree of flexibility in designing their networks to suit their own unique buisness requirements.

In cloud computing everything is virtualised from storage to networking.

Databases:-In cloud computing users may choose to either build and manage their own database servers on top of existing infrastructure provided by cloud service provider.
However,it is more practical to use a managed database service in which you specify your preferences,eg-database vendor,server capacity,version,etc,eg-AWS RDS
Managed databases support various kinds of databases which make them more flexible than self managed database servers.
RDS-Relational database service

Orchestration-spinning up and managing cloud computing resources manually can get extremely difficult.Cloud orchestration allows us to create automated workflows for
creating and managing cloud environments.

Using cloud orchestration we can quickly and easily create cloud resources,shift operations between environments and perform various other administrative tasks.
eg-lets say you have set up a datawarehouse cluster.Now the thing is running an Azure Datawarehouse 24/7 is going to cost your organization a lot.Your buisness idea
is that your Azure datawarehouse should run for 12 buisness hours only.
Azure Synapse Data Warehouse Cluster is a PAAS service.
-Platform as a service
So here can u set up alerts and by doing that is there a way by which u can start and stop your azure resources and schedule jobs at a given time.
You cannot have a prom time entry for a PAAS service but you can use something called Azure Automation to schedule administrative task such as starting and stopping
a PAAS service.So by doing that you do not need to login manually everytime and start and stop your synapse data warehouse cluster.You will just schedule this thing
via the Azure Automation workflow and this can be managed seemlessly.

It is imp. to note that these are not the only services offered by cloud computing platforms.However all other services offered by cloud computing are usually built on
top of these services.


CLOUD REFERENCE ARCHITECTURE

The International Organization for Standardization publishes a cloud reference architecture in their document,ISO 17789
This document lays out a common terminology framework that assists different parties in communicating about their roles and responsibilities.
There are several activities which are performed in cloud computing,which are broken down into 4 layers ,plus a set of functions which spans accross the layers.These are:-
1)User Layer
2)Access Layer
3)Service Layer
4)Resource Layer
5)Multi Layer Functions

The user layer is the user interface through which a customer interacts with cloud services,performs customer related administrative activities,and monitors cloud services
eg:-Somebody logs into portal.azure.com and tries to access based on their defined roles lets say they have read access on some resource,they should be able to access
that resource.Lets say somebody has access to azure security center which basically,which gives you a bluprint of all your security activities,from a security standpoint
it tells you how compliant are you with the various standards.Every user is given some sort of access so what they do is that they log into the portal,from there they 
will start accessing those respective resources.

The access layer provides a common interface for both manual and automated access to capabilities available in the services layer.For instance somebody goes to portal.
azure.com and lets assume that we have set up a web server and the requirement is that i need to access this web server but i need to do it in a secure way.Now my web
server has a private IP address.I want everybody to be accessing my web server using my private IP address.Now the catch is if I go to the browser and type in this 
private IP address then it will not be visible to me.So the question is how do i make by users access this private IP address.
I will go to portal.azure.com and set up Virtual Machines--->Bastion Bost Service--->My user will remote desktop to a particular machine.and then the user can from there
go to portal.azure.com and then can access any specific application.

The service layer contains the implementation of the services provided by a cloud service provider.The service layer contains and controls the software components that 
implement the services.

The resource layer is where the resources reside.These includes hardware such as servers,networking switches and routers,storage devices and software that runs on the 
hardware such as host operating systems,hypervisors,etc.

34:50





